**1) Introduction**

A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring you on the project. Your role is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

In order to enable Sparkify to analyze their data, a Relational Database Schema was created, which can be filled with an ETL pipeline.



**2) Data**

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.



**3) Files in repo**

This repo contains:



**_3.1) Scripts:_**

*create_tables.py* --> creates database and tables

*etl.py* --> the nitty-gritty of the project: extracts the required information from the data and inserts it into the tables in the databases created in the script above

*sql_queries.py* --> support script with the required SQL statements needed by the two other scripts above



**_3.2) Other:_**

*/data* --> folder with required data

*etl.pynb* --> Python notebook for trials



**4) Instructions**

Firstly, the *create_tables.py* file must be run (***python3 create_tables.py***), then, the *etl.py* file (***python3 etl.py***).



