**1) Introduction**

Our music startup company,  Sparkify, has decided that it is time to introduce more automation and monitoring to their data warehouse ETL pipelines and come to the conclusion that the best tool to achieve this is Apache Airflow.

They have decided to bring us into the project and expect us to create high grade data pipelines that are dynamic and built from reusable tasks, can be monitored, and allow easy backfills. 

They have also noted that the data quality plays a big part when analyses are executed on top the data warehouse and want to run tests against their datasets after the ETL steps have been executed to catch any discrepancies in the datasets.

The source data resides in S3 and needs to be processed in Sparkify's data warehouse in Amazon Redshift. The source datasets consist of JSON logs that tell about user activity in the application and JSON metadata about the songs the users listen to.



**2) Data**

We'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. 

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song.

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.



**3) Files in repo**

Inside the *"airflow"* folder you may find two subfolders:

**_dags_**

*Airflow_S3_to_Redshift_dag.py* --> script that creates the Airflow tasks that go to the S3 bucket, extract the required information from the data and inserts it into the dataframes that are created in Spark, and that orders those tasks.

***plugins***

A folder containing supporting scripts for *Airflow_S3_to_Redshift_dag.py* 

Inside this folder there are another two subfolders:

***helpers***

*\_\_init\_\_.py* --> allows a class to be initialized

*sql_queries.py* --> contains the supporting sql queries used along the rest of the scripts

***operators***

Under this folder we may find four python files, and each one of them a different class, used in *Airflow_S3_to_Redshift_dag.py* , is defined.

These clases Airflow's BaseOperator as their supporting class, but each of them expands this class in different manners.

These files are:

*stage_redshift.py* --> creates a class that helps us to stage our json files from S3 to Redshift

*load_fact.py* --> creates a class that helps us to load the facts tables

*load_dimension.py*--> creates a class that helps us to load the dimension tables

*data_quality.py* -->  creates a class that helps us to run the data quality queries

*\_\_init\_\_.py* --> again, allows a class to be initialized

**4) Instructions**

1) Download all these files and past them in the directory of your choice

2) Open the command window in that directory where these files are staged

3) Run */opt/airflow/start.sh*

4) Go to your browser (Chrome, preferably) and go to: *http://localhost:8080/*

